Dow Jones futures fell early Wednesday, along with S&P 500 futures and Nasdaq futures, with a government shutdown underway. Dow giant Nike (NKE) rose on strong earnings after the close.

The stock market rally finished slightly higher Tuesday, with the Dow Jones setting a record close, to cap another strong month and quarter.
↑
NOW PLAYING
These Companies Want To Replace Nvidia In China. Can They Succeed?

Nvidia (NVDA) broke out of a base while CoreWeave (CRWV) gapped up on news. Palantir Technologies (PLTR) is setting up just below a buy point.

The video embedded in the article reviews Tuesday's market action and analyzes Nvidia, Ralph Lauren (RL) and Pagaya stock.
Government Shutdown

The federal government's funding ran out at midnight, triggering a partial government shutdown. Democrats are demanding that President Donald Trump extend expiring ObamaCare subsidies and reverse recent Medicaid cuts. Trump has threatened to fire a slew of federal workers permanently in a shutdown.

Tesla China Finishes Q3 Strong But Global Deliveries Are All About This
Dow Jones Futures Today

Dow Jones futures lost 0.3% vs. fair value, even with Nike giving blue chips a lift. S&P 500 futures fell 0.4% and Nasdaq 100 futures declined 0.5%. Futures are off overnight lows.

Investors will get the ADP Employment report for September at 8:15 a.m. ET. The September ISM manufacturing index and August construction spending data are due at 10 a.m. ET.

Remember that overnight action in Dow futures and elsewhere doesn't necessarily translate into actual trading in the next regular stock market session.

Join IBD experts as they analyze leading stocks and the market on IBD Live
Nike Earnings

Nike earnings topped fiscal Q1 views Tuesday night while sales unexpectedly edged higher, signaling a turnaround is underway.

NKE stock rose solidly overnight, signaling a move above a long-sliding 200-day moving average. Shares edged higher Tuesday.
U.S. To Take Lithium Americas Stake

Lithium Americas (LAC) surged overnight after Secretary of Energy Chris Wright said that the U.S. government will take a stake in the Canadian lithium producer, confirming recent reports.
Tesla Rivals Report Record Deliveries

Tesla (TSLA) rivals XPeng (XPEV), Nio (NIO) and Xiaomi (XIACY) reported record monthly and quarterly deliveries overnight, BYD (BYDDF) had lackluster sales at best while Li Auto (LI) released weak results.

Tesla reports Q3 deliveries before Thursday's open. The EV giant significantly raised U.S. lease prices on Oct. 1, following the Sept. 30 expiration of the $7,500 EV tax credit.
Stock Market Rally

The stock market rally was slightly lower for much of the session but firmed up late for modest gains.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.2% in Tuesday's stock market trading, a new closing high. The S&P 500 index advanced 0.4%. The Nasdaq composite climbed 0.3%. The small-cap Russell 2000 edged up less than 0.1%, rebounding higher from the 21-day line.

For the month, the Dow rose 1.9%, the S&P 500 3.5%, the Nasdaq 5.6% and the Russell 2000 3%.

Leading stocks were mixed Tuesday. Nvidia and CoreWeave were among the winners, but losers predominated Tuesday.

But Spotify (SPOT) fell back from a buy area while payment and lending stocks such as Pagaya Technologies (PGY) and SoFi Technologies (SOFI) were notable losers.

Sports-betting plays such as DraftKings (DKNG) sold off a day after Robinhood Markets (HOOD) touted significant inroads into prediction markets.

U.S. crude oil prices fell 1.7% to $62.37 a barrel amid reports that OPEC+ is mulling a big November production hike on Sunday.

The 10-year Treasury yield rose 1 basis point to 4.15%. A lengthy government shutdown could unnerve bond markets. The government won't release economic data during a shutdown, including the September jobs report scheduled for Friday.
ETFs

Among growth ETFs, the Innovator IBD 50 ETF (FFTY) dipped 0.3%. The iShares Expanded Tech-Software Sector ETF (IGV) fell 0.8%, with Palantir stock the biggest component. The VanEck Vectors Semiconductor ETF (SMH) rallied 1.15%. Nvidia stock is the No. 1 holding in SMH.

ARK Innovation ETF (ARKK) edged up 0.15% and ARK Genomics ETF (ARKG) gained 1.8%. Tesla stock is the No. 1 holding across ARK Invest's ETFs.

SPDR S&P Metals & Mining ETF (XME) declined 0.3%. The Energy Select SPDR ETF (XLE) retreated 1.1% and the Health Care Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLV) popped 2.4%. The Industrial Select Sector SPDR Fund (XLI) advanced 0.8%. The Financial Select SPDR ETF (XLF) shed 0.5%.

Best Growth Stocks To Buy And Watch
Nvidia Stock

Nvidia stock rallied 2.6% to 186.58, clearing a 184.48 flat-base buy point after finding support at the 50-day line last week.
CoreWeave Stock

CoreWeave stock gapped up 11.7% to 136.85, briefly topping a 138.95 short-term high. The Nvidia-backed IPO jumped on an expanded cloud-computing deal with Meta Platforms (META).
Palantir Stock

Palantir stock advanced 2% to 182.42, trading within a cup-with-handle base with a 185.75 buy point, according to MarketSurge. PLTR stock arguably is offering an early entry.
What To Do Now

The stock market rally continues to trend higher. A lengthy government shutdown could have stock market implications, but Wall Street isn't concerned so far.

Investors should be heavily invested.

Many leaders are significantly extended, but Nvidia breaking out and Palantir just below a buy point shows that investors should still be looking for new opportunities.

Some leaders have weakened, though, often around buy points like Spotify and Roblox.

So stay engaged and ready to act, in either direction.

Palantir is on IBD Leaderboard, with Tesla on the Leaderboard watchlist. Nvidia stock, SoFi, Palantir are on the IBD 50. SoFi stock and Palantir are on the IBD Big Cap 20.

Read The Big Picture every day to stay in sync with the market direction and leading stocks and sectors.
